# Syllabus - Spring 2013

---

# Personal Computer Applications Syllabus

## Course Overview

This course is designed to provide the students with the knowledge,
skills and experience required to utilize personal computers and
Internet effectively.  It is for future end-users of computers who
will use computer technology to solve problems and to make decisions.
Whereas the processing power and storage capacity of personal
computers (PCs) have increased tremendously since their introduction
in the mid-70s the PCs price has consistently decreased make them
accessible to large and small companies or organizations as well as
individual users.  Currently, PCs are being used at all levels in
progressive organizations, ranging from clerical workers to top-level
executives.  In addition, the use of computers is not restricted to
any particular field; their use is beneficial to any area where
decisions need to be made and problems need to be solved.  There are
international efforts made toward eliminating the so-called global
digital divide, which is a term used to describe the great
discrepancies in opportunity to access the Internet between developed
and developing countries or even between different regions of
developed countries.  Four decades since the inception of the Internet
and three decades since the inception of the World Wide Web, while the
global digital divide is still a reality, slowly but surely the
Internet and World Wide Web are becoming part of our daily life.
Hence, it is crucial that learners gain knowledge of and experience
with computer technology as it becomes an integral part of the work
place and daily life.

## Course Description

COMP 1000 is a two-credit course composed of 2 hours of instruction
per week.  In this course, students will learn how to use an IBM PC,
its operating system, andseveral application packages.  Each student
will be required to complete a series of assignments on Windows 7,
Internet and World Wide Web (WWW), Microsoft Word 2010 (word
processor), Microsoft Excel 2010 (spreadsheet), and Microsoft Access
2010 (database management), Microsoft PowerPoint 2010 (developing
PowerPoint professional presentations) and Microsoft SharePoint
(developing and maintaining web pages and web sites).  The application
software will be made available to the learners by the Auburn
University bookstore or the Distance Learning department.  The
COMP1000 custom package is formed by: Exploring MS Office 2010 and
Windows 7 by Robert Grauer et al., Exploring with Microsoft SharePoint
2010 by Daniela Marghitu plus the MyITLab, Prentice Hall Publishing
Co.  ISBN 1256423904.

## Course Topics

The topics in this course provide a thorough knowledge of the skills
on the following topics:

1. **Essential Computing Concepts** - An overview of what a computer
is; the hardware of a PC; computer software; and an introduction to
networks.  Get you started with the MyITLab skills based training
application.

2. **Introduction to Office 2010** - Get you acquainted with the
common interface among the Microsoft Office 2010 software applications
and universal tasks including the use of office 2010 help.

3. **Microsoft Windows 7** - Explains the principles of the Microsoft
Windows Desktop; the Anatomy of a Window; how to use the Help and
Support Center; the difference between Files and Folders; how to use
Windows Explorer; and how to increase productivity.  Internet Explorer
and WWW - Discusses the importance of the Internet and World Wide Web
(WWW); how to connect to the Internet; and the differences between
search engines.

4. **Microsoft Word 2010** - How to change font attributes through the
font dialog box; copying formats using the format painter; formatting
a paragraph such as: paragraph tabs, borders, lists and columns;
create table of contents and indexes; enhancing a word document by
inserting, formatting or editing tables; converting text to table;
sorting and applying formulas to tables; inserting clip art, images,
or symbols in a document; insert comments into a document; compare and
combine documents; create and edit footnotes and endnotes; track
changes in a document.

5. **Microsoft Excel 2010** - An introduction to spreadsheets; how to
modify and format a worksheet; how to create graphs and charts;
practice the use of functions and formulas in a spread sheet; use
relative and absolute cell addresses; dealing with large worksheets.
Microsoft Access 2010 - Introduction to Microsoft Access and concepts
of a relational database; define data base objects and how to create
and modify tables, forms, reports, and queries.

6. **Microsoft PowerPoint 2010** - Gain proficiency in creating;
opening, and modifying an existing presentation; enhancing a
presentation by the use of Design Themes, slides transitions, slides
animations; SmartArt, WordArt, a Photo Album; and movies.

7. **Microsoft SharePoint 2010** - An overview of creating and
designing Web pages and Web sites using Microsoft SharePoint
Foundation and Microsoft SharePoint Designer 2010.

