---
layout: courses
pageid: comp1000-syllabus
---

# Syllabus - Spring 2013

---

# Personal Computer Applications Syllabus

## Course Overview

This course is designed to provide the students with the knowledge,
skills and experience required to utilize personal computers and
Internet effectively.  It is for future end-users of computers who
will use computer technology to solve problems and to make decisions.
Whereas the processing power and storage capacity of personal
computers (PCs) have increased tremendously since their introduction
in the mid-70s the PCs price has consistently decreased make them
accessible to large and small companies or organizations as well as
individual users.  Currently, PCs are being used at all levels in
progressive organizations, ranging from clerical workers to top-level
executives.  In addition, the use of computers is not restricted to
any particular field; their use is beneficial to any area where
decisions need to be made and problems need to be solved.  There are
international efforts made toward eliminating the so-called global
digital divide, which is a term used to describe the great
discrepancies in opportunity to access the Internet between developed
and developing countries or even between different regions of
developed countries.  Four decades since the inception of the Internet
and three decades since the inception of the World Wide Web, while the
global digital divide is still a reality, slowly but surely the
Internet and World Wide Web are becoming part of our daily life.
Hence, it is crucial that learners gain knowledge of and experience
with computer technology as it becomes an integral part of the work
place and daily life.

## Course Description

COMP 1000 is a two-credit course composed of 2 hours of instruction
per week.  In this course, students will learn how to use an IBM PC,
its operating system, andseveral application packages.  Each student
will be required to complete a series of assignments on Windows 7,
Internet and World Wide Web (WWW), Microsoft Word 2010 (word
processor), Microsoft Excel 2010 (spreadsheet), and Microsoft Access
2010 (database management), Microsoft PowerPoint 2010 (developing
PowerPoint professional presentations) and Microsoft SharePoint
(developing and maintaining web pages and web sites).  The application
software will be made available to the learners by the Auburn
University bookstore or the Distance Learning department.  The
COMP1000 custom package is formed by: Exploring MS Office 2010 and
Windows 7 by Robert Grauer et al., Exploring with Microsoft SharePoint
2010 by Daniela Marghitu plus the MyITLab, Prentice Hall Publishing
Co.  ISBN 1256423904.

## Course Topics

The topics in this course provide a thorough knowledge of the skills
on the following topics:

1. **Essential Computing Concepts** - An overview of what a computer
is; the hardware of a PC; computer software; and an introduction to
networks.  Get you started with the MyITLab skills based training
application.

2. **Introduction to Office 2010** - Get you acquainted with the
common interface among the Microsoft Office 2010 software applications
and universal tasks including the use of office 2010 help.

3. **Microsoft Windows 7** - Explains the principles of the Microsoft
Windows Desktop; the Anatomy of a Window; how to use the Help and
Support Center; the difference between Files and Folders; how to use
Windows Explorer; and how to increase productivity.  Internet Explorer
and WWW - Discusses the importance of the Internet and World Wide Web
(WWW); how to connect to the Internet; and the differences between
search engines.

4. **Microsoft Word 2010** - How to change font attributes through the
font dialog box; copying formats using the format painter; formatting
a paragraph such as: paragraph tabs, borders, lists and columns;
create table of contents and indexes; enhancing a word document by
inserting, formatting or editing tables; converting text to table;
sorting and applying formulas to tables; inserting clip art, images,
or symbols in a document; insert comments into a document; compare and
combine documents; create and edit footnotes and endnotes; track
changes in a document.

5. **Microsoft Excel 2010** - An introduction to spreadsheets; how to
modify and format a worksheet; how to create graphs and charts;
practice the use of functions and formulas in a spread sheet; use
relative and absolute cell addresses; dealing with large worksheets.
Microsoft Access 2010 - Introduction to Microsoft Access and concepts
of a relational database; define data base objects and how to create
and modify tables, forms, reports, and queries.

6. **Microsoft PowerPoint 2010** - Gain proficiency in creating;
opening, and modifying an existing presentation; enhancing a
presentation by the use of Design Themes, slides transitions, slides
animations; SmartArt, WordArt, a Photo Album; and movies.

7. **Microsoft SharePoint 2010** - An overview of creating and
designing Web pages and Web sites using Microsoft SharePoint
Foundation and Microsoft SharePoint Designer 2010.

## Course Objectives

The objectives of this course are to:

1. Describe components of a computer system; Distinguish between
system software and application software; and define a local area
network; distinguish between a server and a workstation.

2. Describe the objects on the Windows desktop; explain the
significance of the common user interface; identify the elements that
are present in every window.

3. Differentiate between a program file and a data file; explain how
folders are used to organize the files on a disk; use the View menu
and/or the Folder Options command to change the appearance of folder.

4. Copy and/or move a file from one folder to another; delete a file,
then recover the deleted file from the Recycle Bin.

5. Define the Internet and give a brief overview of its history;
explain how the World Wide Web differs from the Internet.

6. Describe the structure of a Web address; explain why backing up
within the address may lead to other relevant documents; Distinguish
between the http and https protocols; define a cookie and explain how
it is a potential threat to individual privacy.

7. Identify common interface components in Microsoft 2010 and how to
use office 2010 help.

8. Applying font attributes through the font dialog box; copying
formats using the format painter; formatting a paragraph such as:
paragraph tabs, borders, lists and columns; create table of contents
and indexes.

9. Enhancing a word document by inserting, formatting or editing of
tables; converting text to table; sorting and applying formulas to
tables; inserting clip art, images, or symbols in a document;
formatting graphic elements.

10. Insert comments into a document; compare and combine documents;
create and edit footnotes and endnotes; track changes in a document;
modify document properties.

11. Describe a spreadsheet and suggest several potential applications;
identify Excel window components; enter and edit data in cells;
display cell formulas; insert and delete rows and columns; manage and
format worksheets; practice the use of copy, paste, paste special, and
AutoFill.

12. Practice the use of functions and formulas in a spread sheet; use
relative and absolute cell addresses; create and modify a chart in a
spread sheet; enhancing a chart by using graphic shapes; embedded
charts.

13. Dealing with large worksheets: freeze rows and columns; hide and
unhide rows, columns, and worksheets; printing large worksheets; sort
data; filter and total data.

14. Start Microsoft Access; describe and navigate among objects in an
Access database; define the terms field, record, table, and database.

15. Create tables and queries; understand tables relations; share data
with Excel; specify criteria for different data types; copy and run a
query.

16. Start PowerPoint; open, and modify an existing presentation;
applying Design Themes, slides transitions, and animations; use
PowerPoint views and slide layout; add a table; insert a clip art

17. Create a presentation using a template; create and modify:
SmartArt, WordArt, and objects; insert and modify a picture; create
and set options for a Photo Album; insert movies.

18. Use SharePoint Foundation and SharePoint Designer 2010 to create,
modify and enhance Web pages and Web site integrated with Microsoft
Office applications.

## Course Requirements

**1. Mandatory Training**

The training is available at Prentice Hall MyITLab website.  You are
strongly advised to work on these training sessions in order to
receive your grade. The website address is
[http://www.pearsoncustom.com/al/au_mitl/](helo).  Student access code
is necessary to register for MyITLab online which will be provided in
the textbook package.

**2. Assignments**

There are three types of homework assignments, MyITLab, Hands-on, and
Practice Exercises. Hands-on, and Practice Exercises are available in
the text book and submitted using Canvas. Each assignment is worth 5
points. It is required that students read the assignment and take the
required MyITLab skills based assignments before class. Unexcused
Canvas late work can be turned in by one week. Thereafter, the
assignment will not be accepted and CAN NOT be turned in for a late
penalty deduction.

- The first few chapters covered on MyITLab will test students using
exams in multiple choice format.  Thereafter, all MyITLab exams will
be in skill-based format.  The skill-based training will include a
pre-test, training, and post-test.  Students will begin by taking the
pre-test.  If a student scores 60% or above on the pre-test, the
student will be allowed to advance to the post-test without taking the
training module.  If a student scores below 60% that student will be
required to take the training module, and will be required to earn
100% on the training module before advancing to the post-test.
Therefore, students who receive below 60% on the pre-test will need to
re-take the training module until they have earned 100%.  Afterwards,
the student will be allowed to take the post-test.  The post-test
grade is the final portion of the skill-based training, and the grade
earned on the post-test will be the grade that is considered in the
student's final MyITLab average.

- MyITLab assignments may be submitted after the due date with a 10%
late penalty applied.  Students who wish to submit MyITLab assignments
after the due date may do so until the last day of class with late
penalty.  After the last day of class, MyITLab assignments will no
longer be accepted.

- MyITLab is compatible only with Windows PC machines and Internet
Explorer.  MyITLab is compatible with MAC computers following the
proper instructions which can be found on the myITlab tab, but NOT
compatible with FireFox, Safari, Chrome, or Opera.

- All COMP 1000 lab computers have been configured to run MyITLab,
however if a student wishes to install MyITLab on his or her personal
laptop, he or she must install the needed software in class on the
first day of class.  If not, the student will be required to use the
COMP 1000 lab to complete MyITLab assignments.  If a student wishes to
use his or her personal laptop computer, it is the student's
responsibility to ensure that the machine is in working condition and
will allow assignments to be submitted by the due date.  A students
failure to get their personal computer working properly with myITlab
will not be considered a valid reason for submitting work late.

**3. Case Study 1 & 2**

There are two case studies available and submitted in course website
on Canvas.  An Integrated Case Study with Microsoft Office 2010 and
the other is a SharePoint Case Study.  Each case study is worth 50
points.  More information about the studies is available in the course
website on Canvas.

**4. Examination 1**

There will be a proctored Examination 1 available on myITlab.  The
examination will cover the material from topics 1 - 4.  This is
designed to give an opportunity to review all that the students have
learned until this point in time, and is skill-based.  Completing your
myITlab assignments will greatly help you in the exam.

**5. Examination 2**

There will be a proctored Examination 2 available on myITlab.  The
examination will cover the material from topics 5 - 6.  This is
designed to give an opportunity to review all that the students have
learned until this point in time, and is skill-based.  Completing your
myITlab assignments will greatly help you in the exam.

**6. Examination 3**

There will be a proctored Examination 3 available on myITlab.  The
examination will cover the material from topics 7 - 9.  This is
designed to give an opportunity to review all that the students have
learned until this point in time, and is skill-based.  Completing your
myITlab assignments will greatly help you in the exam.

**7. Final Examination**

There will be a proctored final examination at the end of the semester
that will be available on myITlab .  This final examination will cover
the material from topics 1 - 9.  The examination is designed to give
an opportunity to review all that the students have learned from the
beginning to this point in time.  It is comprehensive and will last
for 2 ½ hours.  Completing your myITlab assignments will greatly help
you in the exam.

## Performance Evaluation

The students work in this course will be evaluated on the basis of the
assignments, MyITLab skill modules and Examinations.  Exams will be
given as an open computer test composed by multiple choice questions
requiring you to have a basic understanding of the software and
hardware that you will be using.  Exams will include material from the
assigned readings in the text, the assigned exercises, and class
lectures.  You should expect to do well on the exams only if you read,
study, understand the assigned reading in the text, and complete the
assigned exercises.  Detailed information about exams can be found on
the Exams web page.  The MyITLab skill modules will be made available
online at the end of each course topic.  You should expect to do well
on these modules if you carefully study and understand the associated
course topic.  The final course average will be computed as follows.

<table border="1" align="center" summary="Class Point Distribution">
<thead> 
<tr>
<td style="font-size: 16px;" colspan="3"><strong>Class Point Distribution</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Topic</strong></td>
<td><strong>Percentage</strong></td>
<td><strong>Points</strong></td>
</tr>
</thead> 
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Text Book Assignments and Case Studies</td>
<td>30%</td>
<td>300</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>MyITLab Assignments</td>
<td>10%</td>
<td>100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exam 1</td>
<td>10%</td>
<td>100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exam 2</td>
<td>10%</td>
<td>100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exam 3</td>
<td>10%</td>
<td>100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Final Exam</td>
<td>30%</td>
<td>300</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Total Points</td>
<td>100%</td>
<td>1000</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>